Address issues in the draft (#169)
cfrg/draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf: draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf.md

We now detail a number of member functions that can be invoked on a
prime-order group.

> - Order(): Outputs the order of the group (i.e. order of `p`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Order(): Outputs the order of GG (i.e. `p`).
```

Author: Ok.

- HashToScalar(x): A member function of `GG` that deterministically maps
  an array of bytes `x` to a random element in GF(p). A recommended method
  for its implementation is instantiating the hash to field function,

>   defined in {{I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve}} with the order of the prime-order
>   subgroupi (the output of `Order()`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  defined in {{I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve}} setting the target field to GF(p).
```

Author: Ok.

Both modes of the OPRF involve an offline setup phase. In this phase,
both the client and server create a context used for executing the
online phase of the protocol. Prior to this phase, keys should be
generated by calling the `KeyGen` functionality.

> The `KeyGen` function takes a group `GG` and generates a private and public key
> pair (skX, pkX), where skX is a random, non-zero element in the scalar
> field `GG` and pkX is the product of skX and the group's fixed generator. Note
> that  a pre-existing key pair can be used, and passed as a parameter
> to the setup functions (in the case of the base mode, `skS` can be passed as a
> parameter, and, in the case of the verifiable mode, both `skS` and `pkS` can
> be passed as parameters), or the functionality can be called immediately prior
> to calling the setups function.

Reviewer 2: This is redundant with the sentence above, I think. 

```suggestion
```

Author: Ok.

~~~

> # For the base mode
> (skS, _) = KeyGen(GG)
> 
> # For the verifiable mode
> (skS, pkS) = KeyGen(GG)
> ~~~
> 
> For base mode, servers do not need the public key `pkS` produced by KeyGen.
> For verifiable modes, servers MUST make the resulting public key `pkS`
> accessible for clients. (Indeed, it is a required parameter when
> configuring a verifiable client context.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Ok.

client and server contexts are below:

~~~
def SetupBaseServer(suite, skS):

>   if !skS: (skS, _) = KeyGen(GG)

Reviewer 2: Let's remove this line, and assert that `skS` is valid in the text. We can then say that `KeyGen` is used to generate `skS` (and `pkS` for the verifiable mode) and passed to `SetupBaseServer` when needed.

Author: Ok ;)

Author: I think is solved now ;)

client and server contexts are below:

~~~

> def SetupBaseServer(suite, skS):

Reviewer: In the spec, the Setup functions are called once, so they are in charge to generate keys. 
Otherwise, you also need to specify how those keys were generated.

Author: Mmm.. this was trying to solve: https://github.com/cfrg/draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf/issues/168.. what do you suggest instead?

Reviewer 2: This is fine as-is. Please keep it.

Author: Ok ;)

The `KeyGen` function used above takes a group `GG` and generates a
private and public key pair (skX, pkX), where skX is a random, non-zero
element in the scalar field `GG` and pkX is the product of skX and the

> group's fixed generator. Note that to set up a context, a pre-existing key pair

Reviewer: revert this

Reviewer 2: No, please don't revert this. We need to allow context setup using external keys. This is needed for OPAQUE.

## Context APIs {#api}

In this section, we detail the APIs available on the client and server
(V)OPRF contexts. This document uses the types `Element` and `Scalar` to
denote elements of the group `GG` and its underlying scalar field `GF(p)`,
respectively. For notational clarity, `PublicKey` is an item of type
`Element` and `PrivateKey` is an item of type `Scalar`.

### Server Context

The ServerContext encapsulates the context string constructed during
setup and the (V)OPRF key pair. It has three functions, `Evaluate`,
`FullEvaluate` and `VerifyFinalize` described below. `Evaluate` takes
serialized representations of blinded group elements from the client as inputs.

`FullEvaluate` takes ClientInput values, and it is useful for applications
that need to compute the whole OPRF protocol on the server side only.

> Note that `VerifyFinalize` is not used in the main OPRF protocol. It is

Reviewer 2: Isn't it also true that `FullEvaluate` is not used in the main OPRF protocol? If so, can we note that?

Author: Yes!

> `FullEvaluate` takes ClientInput values, and it is useful for applications
> that need to compute the whole OPRF protocol on the server side only.
> Note that `VerifyFinalize` is not used in the main OPRF protocol. It is
> exposed as an API for applications that might need it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`FullEvaluate` and takes ClientInput values, and it is useful for applications
that need to compute the whole OPRF protocol on the server side only.
```

`VerifyFinalize` takes ClientInput values and their corresponding output
digests from `Finalize` as input, and returns true if the inputs match the outputs.
Note that `VerifyFinalize` is not used in the main OPRF protocol. It is

> exposed as an API for building higher-level protocols.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
exposed as an API for building higher-level protocols.

Note that `FullEvaluate` and `VerifyFinalize` are not used in 
the main OPRF protocol.
```

Unlike other functions, `ComputeComposites` takes lists of inputs,
rather than a single input. It is optimized to produce a constant-size

> output. This functionality allows applications batch inputs together to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
output. This functionality lets applications batch inputs together to
```

Applications should take caution in using ciphersuites targeting P-256
and curve25519. See {{cryptanalysis}} for related discussion.

## OPRF(ristretto255, SHA-256)

> Ristretto255 is technique to safely construct and implement ed25519 with a thin
> abstraction level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Ok.

- Group:

>   - Elliptic curve name: ristretto255 {{RISTRETTO}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Name: ristretto255 {{RISTRETTO}}
```

Author: ok ;)

  - Generator(): Return the point with the following affine coordinates:
    - x =
      `15112221349535400772501151409588531511454012693041857206046113283949847762202`
    - y =
      `46316835694926478169428394003475163141307993866256225615783033603165251855960`
    Using Ristretto encoding, it looks like:
    `e2f2ae0a 6abc4e71 a884a961 c500515f 58e30b6a a582dd8d b6a65945 e08d2d76`
  - Order(): Returns
  `1000000000000000000000000000000014DEF9DEA2F79CD65812631A5CF5D3ED`

>   - HashToGroup(): ristretto255_XMD:SHA-256_ELL2_RO\_

Reviewer 2: Can we reference the relevant hash-to-curve section in the document?

Reviewer 2: Those sections are [here for ristretto255](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve-10#appendix-B) and [here for decaf448](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve-10#appendix-C)

Author: Done :)

    {{I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve}} with DST
    "VOPRF05-ristretto255_XMD:SHA-256_ELL2_RO\_"
  - HashToScalar(): Use hash_to_field from {{I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve}}
    using Order() as the prime modulus, with L=48, and expand_message_xmd with
    SHA-256.

>   - Serialization: The 32-byte little-endian encoding of a group element

Reviewer 2: Can we simply reference the [`Encode`](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-irtf-cfrg-ristretto255-decaf448-00#section-4.3.2) and `Decode` APIs? We shouldn't specify anything else, I think.

Reviewer 2: (DItto for decaf448)

Author: For elements (or points), yes, there is no need of anything but the encode and decode. But for scalars, these are not the functions specified for them. That is why I added a serialization of them in accordance with the Ristretto draft.

Reviewer: Serialization of scalars is mostly universal, since they are positive numbers less than group order. Then implementor can just call I2OSP

Author: Removed now.

    using the 'Encode' function from {{!RISTRETTO}}. Note that for 'scalars'
    (field elements), they are encoded as 32-byte strings in little-endian order.
    Implementations SHOULD check that any scalar `s` falls in the
    range `0 <= s < Order()` and reject non-canonical scalar encodings.
    Implementations SHOULD reduce scalars modulo `Order()` when encoding them as
    byte strings.
  - Deserialization: Takes a 32-byte little endian encoding and represents
    it as a group element by using the 'Decode' function from {{!RISTRETTO}}.
    No further check is needed. Note that for 'scalars' (field elements),
    they are represented as 32-byte strings in little-endian order.
    Implementations can obtain a scalar by interpreting the 32-byte string as
    a 256-bit integer in little-endian order and reducing the integer modulo `Order()`.
- Hash: SHA-256
- ID: 0x0001

## OPRF(curve448, SHA-512)

> Decaf448 is technique to safely construct and implement ed448 with a thin
> abstraction level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Ok.

Applications should take caution in using ciphersuites targeting P-256
and curve25519. See {{cryptanalysis}} for related discussion.

## OPRF(ristretto255, SHA-256)

- Group:
  - Name: ristretto255 {{RISTRETTO}}
  - Generator(): Return the point with the following affine coordinates:
    - x =

>       `15112221349535400772501151409588531511454012693041857206046113283949847762202`

Author: Solved.

    - y =
      `46316835694926478169428394003475163141307993866256225615783033603165251855960`

>     Using Ristretto encoding, it looks like:

Author: Ok.

    `e2f2ae0a 6abc4e71 a884a961 c500515f 58e30b6a a582dd8d b6a65945 e08d2d76`
  - Order(): Returns
  `1000000000000000000000000000000014DEF9DEA2F79CD65812631A5CF5D3ED`
  - HashToGroup(): hash_to_ristretto255
    {{I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve}} with DST

>     "VOPRF05-edwards25519_XMD:SHA-256_ELL2_RO\_"

Reviewer: Following Appendix B of hash to curve draft.
it might be:  VOPRF05-ristretto25519\_XMD:SHA-256\_RS255MAP\_RO\_

Author: Solved.

  - HashToScalar(): Use hash_to_field from {{I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve}}
    using Order() as the prime modulus, with L=48, and expand_message_xmd with
    SHA-256.

>   - Serialization: The 32-byte little-endian encoding of a group element
>     using the 'Encode' function from {{!RISTRETTO}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Serialization: Converts a group element to a 32-byte string 
    using the 'Encode' function from {{!RISTRETTO}}.
```

Author: Ok.

>   - Deserialization: Takes a 32-byte little endian encoding and represents
>     it as a group element by using the 'Decode' function from {{!RISTRETTO}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Deserialization: Converts a valid 32-byte string to 
    a group element by using the 'Decode' function from {{!RISTRETTO}}.
```

Author: Ok.

## OPRF(ristretto255, SHA-256)

- Group:
  - Name: ristretto255 {{RISTRETTO}}
  - Generator(): Return the point with the following affine coordinates:
    - x =
      `0x216936D3CD6E53FEC0A4E231FDD6DC5C692CC7609525A7B2C9562D608F25D51A`
    - y =
      `0x6666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666658`
    The byte encoding of the generator is:
    `0xe2f2ae0a6abc4e71a884a961c500515f58e30b6aa582dd8db6a65945e08d2d76`
  - Order(): Returns
  `1000000000000000000000000000000014DEF9DEA2F79CD65812631A5CF5D3ED`
  - HashToGroup(): hash_to_ristretto255
    {{I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve}} with DST
    "VOPRF05-ristretto255_XMD:SHA-256_ELL2_RO\_"
  - HashToScalar(): Use hash_to_field from {{I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve}}
    using Order() as the prime modulus, with L=48, and expand_message_xmd with
    SHA-256.
  - Serialization: Converts a group element to a 32-byte string
    using the 'Encode' function from {{!RISTRETTO}}.
  - Deserialization: Converts a valid 32-byte string to
    a group element by using the 'Decode' function from {{!RISTRETTO}}.
  - Scalar multiplication: Scalar multiplication of curve points

>     directly corresponds with scalar multiplication in the edwards group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    directly corresponds with scalar multiplication in the Edwards curve.
```

Author: Done

    - x = `0x4F1970C66BED0DED221D15A622BF36DA9E146570470F1767EA6DE324A3D3A46412AE1AF72AB66511433B80E18B00938E2626A82BC70CC05E`
    - y = `0x298819210078481492676017930443930673437544040154080242095928241372331506189835876003536878655418784733982303233503462500531545062832660`
    The byte encoding of the generator is:
    `0x6666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666633333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333`
  - Order(): Returns `3FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF7CCA23E9C44EDB49AED63690216CC2728DC58F552378C292AB5844F3`
  - HashToGroup(): hash_to_decaf448
    {{I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve}} with DST
    "VOPRF05-decaf448_XMD:SHA-512_ELL2_RO\_"
  - HashToScalar(): Use hash_to_field from {{I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve}}
    using Order() as the prime modulus, with L=84, and expand_message_xmd with
    SHA-512.
  - Serialization: Converts a group element to a 56-byte string
    using the 'Encode' function from {{!RISTRETTO}}.
  - Deserialization: Converts a valid 56-byte string to
    a group element by using the 'Decode' function from {{!RISTRETTO}}.
  - Scalar multiplication: Scalar multiplication of curve points

>     directly corresponds with scalar multiplication in the edwards group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    directly corresponds with scalar multiplication in the Edwards curve.
```

Author: Done.

    SHA-256.
  - Serialization: The 32-byte little-endian encoding of a group element
    using the 'Encode' function from {{!RISTRETTO}}.
  - Deserialization: Takes a 32-byte little endian encoding and represents
    it as a group element by using the 'Decode' function from {{!RISTRETTO}}.
  - Scalar multiplication: Scalar multiplication of curve points
    directly corresponds with scalar multiplication in the edwards group.
- Hash: SHA-256
- ID: 0x0001

## OPRF(decaf448, SHA-512)

- Group:
  - Name: decaf448 {{RISTRETTO}}
  - Generator(): Return the point with the following affine coordinates:
    - x = `224580040295924300187604334099896036246789641632564134246125461
      686950415467406032909029192869357953282578032075146446173674602635
      247710`
    - y = `298819210078481492676017930443930673437544040154080242095928241
      372331506189835876003536878655418784733982303233503462500531545062
      832660`
  - Order(): Returns `3FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF7CCA23E9C44EDB49AED63690216CC2728DC58F552378C292AB5844F3`
  - HashToGroup(): hash_to_decaf448
    {{I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve}} with DST

>     "VOPRF05-edwards448_XMD:SHA-512_ELL2_RO\_"

Reviewer: likewise `VOPRF05-decaf448_XMD:SHA-512_D448MAP_RO_`

Author: Solved.

Applications should take caution in using ciphersuites targeting P-256
and curve25519. See {{cryptanalysis}} for related discussion.

## OPRF(ristretto255, SHA-256)

- Group:
  - Name: ristretto255 {{RISTRETTO}}
  - Generator(): Return the point with the following affine coordinates:
    - x =
      `0x216936D3CD6E53FEC0A4E231FDD6DC5C692CC7609525A7B2C9562D608F25D51A`
    - y =

>       `0x6666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666658`

Reviewer 2: Is the generator useful information for ristretto255? (I don't think users need it to implement the OPRF, right?)

Author: They do. You do:

```
  G = GG.Generator()
```

for `GenerateProof()`.

    The byte encoding of the generator is:
    `0xe2f2ae0a6abc4e71a884a961c500515f58e30b6aa582dd8db6a65945e08d2d76`
  - Order(): Returns
  `1000000000000000000000000000000014DEF9DEA2F79CD65812631A5CF5D3ED`
  - HashToGroup(): hash_to_ristretto255
    {{I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve}} with DST
    "VOPRF05-ristretto255_XMD:SHA-256_ELL2_RO\_"
  - HashToScalar(): Use hash_to_field from {{I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve}}
    using Order() as the prime modulus, with L=48, and expand_message_xmd with
    SHA-256.
  - Serialization: Converts a group element to a 32-byte string
    using the 'Encode' function from {{!RISTRETTO}}.
  - Deserialization: Converts a valid 32-byte string to
    a group element by using the 'Decode' function from {{!RISTRETTO}}.

>   - Scalar multiplication: Scalar multiplication of curve points
>     directly corresponds with scalar multiplication in the Edwards group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Scalar multiplication: Scalar multiplication according to {{!RISTRETTO}}.
```

Author: Done.

- Hash: SHA-256
- ID: 0x0001

## OPRF(decaf448, SHA-512)

- Group:
  - Name: decaf448 {{RISTRETTO}}
  - Generator(): Return the point with the following affine coordinates:

>     - x = `0x4F1970C66BED0DED221D15A622BF36DA9E146570470F1767EA6DE324A3D3A46412AE1AF72AB66511433B80E18B00938E2626A82BC70CC05E`

Reviewer 2: Ditto here for the decaf448 generator.

    - y = `0x298819210078481492676017930443930673437544040154080242095928241372331506189835876003536878655418784733982303233503462500531545062832660`
    The byte encoding of the generator is:
    `0x6666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666633333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333`
  - Order(): Returns `3FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF7CCA23E9C44EDB49AED63690216CC2728DC58F552378C292AB5844F3`
  - HashToGroup(): hash_to_decaf448
    {{I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve}} with DST
    "VOPRF05-decaf448_XMD:SHA-512_ELL2_RO\_"
  - HashToScalar(): Use hash_to_field from {{I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve}}
    using Order() as the prime modulus, with L=84, and expand_message_xmd with
    SHA-512.
  - Serialization: Converts a group element to a 56-byte string
    using the 'Encode' function from {{!RISTRETTO}}.
  - Deserialization: Converts a valid 56-byte string to
    a group element by using the 'Decode' function from {{!RISTRETTO}}.

>   - Scalar multiplication: Scalar multiplication of curve points
>     directly corresponds with scalar multiplication in the Edwards group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Scalar multiplication: Scalar multiplication according to {{!RISTRETTO}}.
```

Author: Done.
